---
language: en
layout: worker
type: budget
category: Core Development
bfid: 
workerid: 
title: BitShares-Core Development Team
name: Milos Preocanin
company:
 name:
 url:
status: 
discussions:
 - name: bitsharestalk
   url: 
 - name: 
   url: 
budget: 7,659,840.00000 BTS
duration: 6 months
start: 2020/02/24
end: 2020/08/23
paymentaccount: zavod.premik
---

Background
==========

With the extreme depreciation of the BTS Core Token price during 2019 and very low activity within the ecosystem, in order to cut losses to the reserve pool, holders stopped development in late 2019 until more viable solutions/proposals could be put forward by the community or developers. As bitshares-core is the main software design related to the BitShares protocol, it was priority to re-organize budget, keep known developers on the team, and ultimately provide the same service at a lower cost (BTS payouts).  

Worker Intent
=============

This worker intent is to provide development, testing and deployment of pre-defined BSIP's to both testnet and mainnet of the bitshares-core software (BitShares protocol) within 6 months at x3 lower costs than in the previous worker. Development of BSIP's would be followed by Documentation updates (both User and Dev documentation) and GitHub Wiki management. To provide consistency in quality of code, deliveries and promises, this worker will be treated as a corporate agreement/offer to the blockchain, performed by "employees" of the ecosystem and without any ability for 3rd party to interfere (NO BOUNTIES).  

Detailed Roadmap and Estimates
==============================

- bugfixing, review, re-testing and release of BitShares Mainnet 4.0 (60-80 hours)
- Development for BSIP 62: Close short position (up to 115 hours)
- Development for BSIP 64: Operational HTLC preimage length, HASH160 addition, and memo field (up to 12 hours)
- Development for BSIP 69: Additional Assert Predicates (up to 25 hours)
- Development for BSIP 70: P2P Lending (up to 400 hours)
- Development for BSIP 73: Match Force-Settlement Orders with Margin Calls and Limit Orders (up to 280 hours)
- Development for BSIP 74: Margin Call Fee Ratio (up to 60 hours)
- Development for BSIP 77: Require Higher CR When Creating/Adjusting Debt Positions (up to 80 hours)
- Development for BSIP 80: Short-term memberships (up to 225 hours)
- Development for BSIP 81: Simple Maker-Taker Market Fees (up to 100 hours)
- Development for BSIP 85: Maker Order Creation Fee Discount (up to 100 hours)
- Development for BSIP 86: Share market fee to the network (up to 60 hours)
- Final Development for NanoLedger BTS Integration and testing (up to 30 hours)
- Legal submission for official NanoLedger listing (legal representative estimate)
- Bugfixes and Maintenance (Revisions up to 400 hours)
- Testnet Deployment and Testing (up to 300 hours)
- Documentation (BSIP, User and Dev) and GitHub/Wiki maintenance and updates (up to 600 hours for entire team)
- Collaboration with UI Team and bitshares.org on synchronized releases/updates without long delays (up to 50 hours)
*(Desirable situation: BSIP 70: P2P lending would be released in Staging UI with testnet core release, available for testing through testnet API and linted additionally to be launched on Wallet UI along with the mainnet core release)*
- 5.0 Mainnet Release (up to 10-20 hours via automatization)

BitShares Core Team Members, Roles and Budgeted Effort
======================================================

BitShares core team represent a small group of highly-skilled and experienced professionals, engineers and doctors in the programming/logic design/industry. As such, they're a precious asset of the BitShares community to be taken care of. As with mentioned depreaciation of the BTS core token value over 2019, these professionals accepted lower hourly rates at the minimum threshold of BTS core token value. Appreciation of their hourly rates through appreciation of BTS core token value is possible, so as a safety measure for the amount of earnings, there is a hardcap set in USD equalent value @ 0.05 USD per 1 BTS core token.  

 **Table 1. BitShares Core Team Positions, Availability and Rates (Weekly)**

| Roles (described below)           | Rate (USD)| (BTS) Value @ $0.03 USD | Team Member             | Available Hours   |
|:--------------------------------- | ---------:|:----------------------- |:----------------------- |:----------------- |
| -                                 |           |                         |                         |                   |
| Worker Manager                    | $40/hour  | 1333 BTS                | Milos Preocanin         | 20 hours weekly   |
| Documentation specialist          | $30/hour  | 1000 BTS                | Anonymous               | 20 hours weekly   |
| Audit/Senior Core Developer       | $75/hour  | 2500 BTS                | Abit More               | 20 hours weekly   |
| Senior Core Developer             | $75/hour  | 2500 BTS                | Christopher Sanborn     | 20 hours weekly   |
| Senior Core Developer             | $75/hour  | 2500 BTS                | John Jones              | 30 hours weekly   |
| Senior Core Developer/BA          | $75/hour  | 2500 BTS                | Michel Santos           | 30 hours weekly   |
| Junior Core Developer(Student)    | $45/hour  | 1500 BTS                | ???                     | 15 hours weekly   |

New Schedule for Releases
===================

As 2 main consensus affecting releases per year are a bit too much for the small-sized team, idea would be to introduce:  

- 1 Testnet Release per year (aim: 15th of May) `test-5.0.0`
*requires consensus update*
- 1 Mainnet Release per year (aim: 4th of July) `5.0.0`
*requires consensus update*
- Additional revisions of sub-releases and new builds through maintenance.
*not require consensus update* 

Disclaimer: format legend for eg `5.0.0` would be `release(5).sub-release(0).build(0)`. Hence `Build` cannot be planned or scheduled being random bug-fixes and necessary changes to the code found/discovered on actual production (testnet or mainnet).  

**Team Roles and Rates**

| Roles (described below)         | Rate (USD) | Position (open/closed)| 
|:------------------------------- | :---------:|----------------------:|
| Manager                         |  $50/hour  | (closed)              |
| Senior Core Developer           |  $75/hour  | (closed)              |
| Junior Core Developer           |  $40/hour  | (open)                | 
| QA/Audit                        |  $75/hour  | (closed)              |
| Documentation Specialist        |  $25/hour  | (closed)              |

*For positions marked as **open** please send you CV/Portfolio to hr@bitshares.org with subject: "Core Team Hiring - $Role position". If it satisfies requirements you'll be scheduled and notified for an interview. No reply would be considered as `rejected` *  


================

**Hardcap definition:**
This Worker re-introduces payouts in BTS, instead of BitAssets. As such, in case of appreciation of value in BTS Core token over time, this worker will cap income in value of 0.05 USD per 1 BTS token. So, as the worker starts at core rate for hours lowered due to depreciation of the core token value, BTS payouts are considered FIXED as per table 1, as long as the price is <0.05 USD per 1 BTS token. In case of the price >0.05, amount of BTS used for payout will be reduced according to cap 
(cap = BTS rate from this worker * 0.05) 

In this manner, developers support development with low hourly USD rates through depreciation of BTS token, and at the same time being rewarded up to cap limit in USD value if the appreciation in value comes during the worker duration.  

**SAFETY BUFFER**
Hourly estimates given by the developers for the pre-defined list of BSIP's to be delivered have a 15% buffer given by the worker manager. In this sense, both developers and holders/ecosystem are safe in terms of deliveries and additional budget if needed for any unexpected market value conditions of the BTS token.  

**Payments/Escrow**
All hours and reports will be done once every 3 weeks/21 days and a single collective team invoice will be issued by the Worker Manager (Milos DL Preocanin) with previous approval by QA/Audit Manager (Abit More).  

Terms of Agreement
==================

- Milos Preocanin will be held as the main / responsible contact for this worker, on behalf of “Zavod Premik”.

- Worker/Agreement budget requirement is designed as per availability of the core team members and desire of BTS Core token holders 

- “Zavod Premik” will uphold this agreement with the BitShares Blockchain for 6 months(26 weeks), giving warranty on current structure / intent as CONSISTENT and fully transparent to the stakeholders and BitShares Ecosystem.

- This project/agreement is crafted according to combined desires of BTS core token holders, priorities for the blockchain and technology, as well as availability of core development team. 

- Any additional request from BTS Core token holders upon first activation of this agreement/worker will result in additional estimate and budget for integration/development (additional milestone worker).


## IMPORTANT NOTICE

This worker approves development of listed BSIP's and improvements, but not their inclusion within release of bitshares-core software as result of this worker. To make sure BSIP's are included in the upcoming release, BTS Core token holders will have to hold them active/voted in during last 90 days of this worker. 
